5 Topics Related to Computing that are Interesting
1. Artificial Intelligence - AI is the stimulation of human intelligence on computational machines. It can be broken up into weak AI (facial recognition, language translation) and strong AI (ability to learn and apply knowledge to make decisions), which can be exciting and a bit scary
2. Big Data - in the space of biotechnology, high throughput DNA sequencers can generate entire genomes quickly and (more) cost effectively than before. Analyzing the data involves aligning the sequenced genome to a reference genome and performing downstream processes. Big data technology and frameworks are used to manage large amounts of data
3. Machine Learning - this is a subset of AI where computers learn from previous data and can make decisions or predictions from that data.
4. Priority Queues - usually implemented with a min and max heap. Removing and inserting from a heap is an efficient O(logn). One thing I found interesting is heapify (fastest way to create a proper heap from an array) is actually O(n). It would be natural to think it is O(n logn) because there are n/2 non leaf elements in which heapify is called which is a log n operation. But the work done on each element is O(h), where h is height of the node. Only the root node has a height of O(logn), the rest of the nodes have a smaller height. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/time-complexity-of-building-a-heap/
5. AVL - self balancing binary search trees. All operations (remove, insert, search) have a time complexity of O(logn), guaranteed because the height of the tree will be log n max. 

5 Topics Related to Computing that are Challenging
1. AVL - although interesting, implementing this data structure was one of the most difficult assignments I had in CS 261 at OSU. The most challenging part was making sure parent pointers, left and right child pointers, and heights of the nodes where all being updated correctly. 
2. Operating systems - I know this is considered one of the most difficult classes in a CS degree. I don't know too much about it, except it relates to low level programming, resource management, and hardware. I'm hoping after this class, it will be less daunting.
3. Docker - I here is term being used by computational biologist at work. A google search says it is a platform and tool that allows you to develop, deploy, and run applications inside containers. But it still seems abstract to me!
4. Recursion - I was first introduced to this in CS161/CS162, then in CS225 writing a recursive relations, and write a recursive solution for an inorder tree traversal. But I still don't feel super comfortable with it. Especially the Fibonnaci algorithm.
5. Leetcode - Seems to be standard when applying to software engineer positions that there will be technical interviews with coding questions. After taking data structures, I feel a little bit more comfortable learning some of the basic data structures and when to apply them. However, coding under time pressure is daunting. Usually it takes me a while to come up with a solution, but guess it comes with practice.